
HERO SECTION

WHAT MADE RIZAL A

Blue: #0032A0.
Red: #BF0D3E.
Yellow: #FED141.

WHO WAS RIZAL

José Rizal (born June 19, 1861, Calamba, Philippines—died December 30, 1896, Manila) patriot, physician, and man of letters who was an inspiration to the Philippine nationalist movement.

PARENTS

MOTHER: Teodora Alonso REalonda y Quintos
Rizal described her mother as cultured and religious. And that she provided their home with learning and culture, she was also sacrificious, industrious and disciplinary.

FATHER : Francesco Engracio Rzial MErcado y Alejandro
His father was a tenant-farmer of a Dominican-owned hacienda in Calambam which granted them their fortune.

EDUCATION

The son of a prosperous landowner, Rizal was educated in Manila and at the University of Madrid. A brilliant medical student, he soon committed himself to the reform of Spanish rule in his home country, though he never advocated Philippine independence. Most of his writing was done in Europe, where he resided between 1882 and 1892.

WHY IS HE A HERO

He became the leader of the Propaganda Movement, contributing numerous articles to its newspaper, La Solidaridad, published in Barcelona. Rizal’s political program included integration of the Philippines as a province of Spain, representation in the Cortes (the Spanish parliament), the replacement of Spanish friars by Filipino priests, freedom of assembly and expression, and equality of Filipinos and Spaniards before the law.

In 1887 Rizal published his first novel, Noli me tangere (The Social Cancer), a passionate exposure of the evils of Spanish rule in the Philippines. A sequel, El filibusterismo (1891; The Reign of Greed), established his reputation as the leading spokesman of the Philippine reform movement.

Rizal returned to the Philippines in 1892. He founded a nonviolent-reform society, the Liga Filipina, in Manila, and was deported to Dapitan in northwest Mindanao. 

EXILE

He remained in exile for the next four years. In 1896 the Katipunan, a Filipino nationalist secret society, revolted against Spain. Although he had no connections with that organization and he had had no part in the insurrection, Rizal was arrested and tried for sedition by the military. 

DEATH

Found guilty, he was publicly executed by a firing squad in Manila. His martyrdom convinced Filipinos that there was no alternative to independence from Spain. On the eve of his execution, while confined in Fort Santiago, Rizal wrote “Último adiós” (“Last Farewell”), a masterpiece of 19th-century Spanish verse.


TRAVELS TIMELINE
1882 Philippines 
- Rizal Boarded the salvadora with Atonio Rivera

1882 Spain
- Rizal arrived and stayed at Barcelona for 3 months in which he published "Amor Patrio" and enrolled at Universidad Central De Madrid.

1883 France
- Rizal visisted the Lariboisiere and observed the different diseases of women.

1884, Madrid, Spain
- Rizal finished his degree Licentiate in Medicine

1887, Germany
- copies of Noli Me Tangere went to the press.

1887, Philippines
- Rizal came back to Manila wherein possession and reading of Noli Me Tangere was prohibited

1888, Japan
- He wrote to his Austrian friend Blumentritt about the honesty and courtesy of the Japanese people. 

This is also when he met O-sei-san.

1891, France
- Rizal finished writing El Filibusterismo.

1892-1896 Philippines
Rizal arrived in the Philippines where we was executed on Dec 30,1896


Originally published: 1887
Author: José Rizal
Characters: María Clara, Padre Dámaso, Crisostomo Ibarra, Capitán Tiago, Elías
Genres: Novel, Satire, Historical Fiction
Original languages: Spanish, Latin

Originally published: 1891
Author: José Rizal
Characters: Simoun, Basilio, Isagani, Kabesang Tales, Juli
Original language: Spanish
Genre: Novel, fiction